h1. Mandrel

h2. A Distributed Crawler Engine

Mandrel is a distributed Crawler engine built for the cloud. Features include:
* Distributed and Highly Available Crawler Engine.
* HTTP RESTful API
* Open Source under the Apache License, version 2 ("ALv2")

h2. Getting Started

h3. Installation

* Download and unzip the Mandrel official distribution OR checkout the code and build it via a "mvn package -DskipTests"
* Run @bin/mandrel@ on unix
* Run @curl -X GET http://localhost:9200/@.
* Start more servers ...

h3. Crawling

Ok, we want to crawl Wikipedia. First step, we create a spider:
@curl -X POST http://localhost:9200/spiders/wikipedia?urls=http://en.wikipedia.org@

You can see all the spiders here:
@curl -X GET http://localhost:9200/spiders@

Or just your newly created spider:
@curl -X GET http://localhost:9200/spiders/wikipedia@

Now start it:
@curl -X POST http://localhost:9200/spiders/wikipedia/start@

And, that's it. Wait, what???

Mandrel create the spider "wikipedia" and distribute it across all the nodes. When you start it, Mandrel begin to crawl the urls you give and dig in the pages in order to find other urls. 

bq. By default, only 1000 urls are crawled. See below in order to configure your spider.

Once you have done all you want with your spider, you can kill it:
@curl -X POST http://localhost:9200/spiders/wikipedia/cancel@

Before starting your spider, it may be useful to test it against a url and have a first look of the result:
@curl -X GET http://localhost:9200/spiders/wikipedia/analyze?source=http://myurl.com/...@

h3. Filtering

You can add filters to your spider. There are two types of filters:
- url filters
- page filters

Url filters apply conditions only on the url whereas page filters apply conditions on the page. This means also that url filters are applied BEFORE the crawling and page filters AFTER.
Filters are added on the spider in this way:


Url filters


Page filters


      {
         "type":"large"
      },
      {
         "type":"only_seeds_domain"
      },
      {
         "type":"on_domains"
      },
      {
         "type":"not",
         "filter":
            {
               "type":"statics"
            }
      },
      {
         "type":"statics"
      },
      {
         "name":"xxxx",
         "type":"groovy",
         "value":"seeds.domain.contains($url.domain)"
      },
      {
         "type":"patterns",
         "value":[
            "/signin",
            "/contact"
         ]
      }
      
TODO...

h3. Raw exporting

/{id}/raw/export

TODO...

h3. Extracting

Something we want to crawl pages. But what we really want is the data INSIDE the pages.

bc. curl -X POST http://localhost:9200/spiders/imdb -d '
{
   "sources":[
      {
         "type":"fixed",
         "urls":[
            "http://www.imdb.com/"
         ]
      }
   ],
   "extractors":[
      {
         "name":"movie_extractor"
         "filters":[
            {
               "type":"patterns",
               "value":[
                  "/title"
               ]
            }
         ],
         "fields":[
            {
               "title":{
                  "extractor":{
                     "type":"xpath",
                     "value":"//*[@id="overview-top"]/h1/span[1]/text()",
                     "source":"body"
                  }
               }
            },
            {
               "description":{
                  "extractor":{
                     "type":"xpath",
                     "value":"//*[@id="overview-top"]/p[2]/text()",
                     "source":"body"
                  }
               }
            },
            {
               "actors":{
                  "extractor":{
                     "type":"xpath",
                     "value":"//*[@id="overview-top"]/div[6]/a/span",
                     "source":"body"
                  }
               }
            }            
         ]
      }
   ]
}
'

This will extract the fields 'title', 'description' and 'actors' from the page.

h3. Data exporting

Ok, now we got some data, we can export them by calling:

bc. curl -X POST http://localhost:9200/spiders/export/movie_extractor -d '{"type":"..."}'

h4. JSON

bc. {
    "type":"json"
}

h4. Delimited separated values


bc. {
    "type":"csv",
    "quote_char":"\"",
    "delimiter_values":44,
    "delimiter_multivalues":124,
    "keep_only_first_value":false,
    "add_header":true,
    "end_of_line_symbols":"\r\n"
}

h3. Client

Each spider can be configured with a specified HTTP client in order to configure:
* Proxies
* Request and connection timeouts
* User-agent generation
* Custom cookies (jsessionid...) and headers (X-Request-By, Basic-Authentication...)
* DNS resolution strategies
* Politeness

bc. {
    "request_time_out":3000,
    "headers":null,
    "params":null,
    "follow_redirects":false,
    "cookies":null,
    "user_agent_provisionner":{
        "type":"fixed",
        "ua":"Mandrel"
    },
    "dns_cache":{
        "type":"internal"
    },
    "proxy":{
        "type":"no"
    },
    "politeness":{
        "global_rate":1000,
        "per_node_rate":500,
        "max_pages":500,
        "wait":100,
        "ignore_robots_txt":false,
        "recrawl_after":-1
    }
}

h3. Distributed, Highly Available

TODO...

h3. Building from Source

Mandrel uses "Maven":http://maven.apache.org for its build system.

In order to create a distribution, simply run the @mvn clean package -DskipTests@ command in the cloned directory.

h1. License

<pre>
This software is licensed under the Apache License, version 2 ("ALv2"), quoted below.

Copyright 2009-2015 Mandrel

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.
</pre>





